Notes on pre-emptable jobs (#1421)
rcgsheffield/sheffield_hpc: hpc/scheduler/index.rst

    # and output foo.res
    foo foo.dat foo.res

.. _preemptable_jobs_bessemer:

Pre-emptable Jobs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Under certain conditions, 
Slurm on Bessemer allows jobs running in higher-priority Partitions (sets of nodes) to

> *pre-empt* (take over resources from) jobs in lower-priority Partitions.

Reviewer: I think we need to add a bit more clarity here that pre-empting is going to kill the job in the lower priority partition otherwise people may think the higher priority one is simply usurping a lion's share etc...

Author: Thanks.  I've also now clarified that 'stopped' typically means 'cancelled'.

2. Researcher A decides that they want to use those idle GPUs but they aren't a member of research group X; however, they are happy to take the risk of their job being pre-empted by a member of research group X
3. Researcher A submits a job and makes it pre-emptable (by adding submitting it to the ``preempt`` Partition using ``--partition=preempt``)
4. The job starts running on a node which is a member of the ``preempt`` and ``research-group-X`` Partitions
5. Researcher B is a member of research group X and submits a job to the ``research-group-X`` Partition.  
6. This job can only start if the resources being used by the first job are reclaimed.
7. As a result, Slurm pre-empts the first job with this second job, as a result of which the first job is cancelled.
8. The second job runs to completion.

Tips for using pre-emptable jobs:

* Ensure that you're able to reliably re-submit your pre-emptable job if it is pre-empted before completion.  A common way of doing this is to write out state/progress information periodically whilst the job is running.

> * However, don't write out state/progress information too frequently otherwise you may be limited by the speed with which the job can write to disk.

Reviewer: Might be able to simplify this to: 
```suggestion
* Select a sensible frequency for writing out state/progress information or you may cause poor performance due to storage write speed limits.
```

Author: Thanks
